---
layout: post
title: HW18 Chapter 21 and Chapter 22
---

HW18: Ex 21.4, 22.6

21.4.  Explain why an object-oriented approach to software development may not be suitable for real-time systems.
By mentioning “real-time systems” I assume the book is talking about mission critical things like heart monitors, and other life or death systems that rely on processing input data accurately and quickly. There are pros and cons to using an object-oriented approach, however in this case the cons might win out from the pros. In the case of a heart monitor where every second of downtime quite literally translates to possible deaths, the readability of the code is not the issue. OO is popular with developers because it helps logically design systems quickly and based on real world things; however, if the cost of design features defeats the purpose of the software in the first place it is not suitable for the given purpose. If the OO approach truly hinders the performance of the device in a meaningful way, it should be avoided. 

22.6.  Fixed-price contracts, where the contractor bids a fixed price to complete a system develop- ment, may be used to move project risk from client to contractor. If anything goes wrong, the contractor has to pay.  Suggest how the use of such contracts may increase the likelihood that product risks will arise. 
The underlying issue with this model is that it is trying to minimize the cost of the software at the expense of quality. (Although I don’t think price and quality are ALWAYS related) By trying to minimize the cost of the software the client is almost asking to receive a worse overall produce prone to risks. Issues of ethics come into play when the contractor has used all of the fixed budget, but knows issues still remain. Either the contractor finishes the project for free or delivers a substandard software. Both of which should not be the solution to this issue depending on the type and utilization of the software. 
