---
layout: post
title: HW1 Chapter 1
---

Questions: http://bowringj.people.cofc.edu/classes/csci%20362/fall%202020/Homework.pdf 

`1.3: What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four other attributes that may sometimes be significant.`

4 Most Important Characteristics:
* Acceptability, Dependability and Security, Efficiency, and Maintainability

4 Other Characteristics: 
* Portability, Scalability, Reuseability, and Longevity 

`1.8: Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers`

Personally, I think the term Software Engineer is to vague to be licensed in this way. Doctors and Lawyers take standardized tests to determine if they are "worthy" of representing others health and legal lives. ToS for the most part covers the mess ups of most software that consumers use, but there are for sure instances in which Software Engineers are licensed such as needing specific certs to do a specific job. 

`1.9: For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an
appropriate example that illustrates that clause.` 

1. PUBLIC — Software engineers shall act consistently with the public interest.
* Along the lines of cultural relativisim, follow your society as a rule of thumb for what they want. 

2. CLIENT AND EMPLOYER — Software engineers shall act in a manner that is in the
best interests of their client and employer consistent with the public interest.
* Do your job to the specifications of your contract for transparancy. 

3. PRODUCT — Software engineers shall ensure that their products and related
modifications meet the highest professional standards possible.
* If you know something will break but it "won't be my problem" at least leave a comment.. lol

4. JUDGMENT — Software engineers shall maintain integrity and independence in their
professional judgment.
* The counter point to #2, if you have a serious conflict of morality with your client and employer, maintain your integrety by speaking up to what you feel is wrong. 

5. MANAGEMENT — Software engineering managers and leaders shall subscribe to and
promote an ethical approach to the management of software development and
maintenance.
* Project management should not promote using unethical methods of development 

6. PROFESSION — Software engineers shall advance the integrity and reputation of
the profession consistent with the public interest.
* Don't be a toxic community because overall our goal as a profession is to improve software not discourage poople to follow in our footsteps. 

7. COLLEAGUES — Software engineers shall be fair to and supportive of their
colleagues.
* Be open to sharing knowledge and support to those who need it, for you will also need to ask questions. 

8. SELF — Software engineers shall participate in lifelong learning regarding
the practice of their profession and shall promote an ethical approach to the
practice of the profession.
* Strive to improve yourself, because growth will last for ever. 

`1.10: To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that
track large numbers of their citizens and their actions. Clearly, this has privacy implications. Discuss
the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.`

well see, this is a matter of faith and just as faith wavers i think the decision to make such tools do as well. The most famous example is of course Ed S. in the wake of 9/11. His faith evolved over time to not believe in the mission he was part of starting. In the end it is a balance between "freedom" and "security", in which both sides are arguing for the same thing in the end. Should the people be lied to about being monitored? no. Are they monitored? Yes. Is that a "good" thing and would I contribute? Faith.

*best, Matt* 