---
layout: post
title: HW5 Chapter 4 and reflections
---

4.5) Using the technique suggested here, where natural language descriptions are
presented in a standard format, write plausible user requirements for the following
functions:

An unattended gas pump system that includes a credit card reader. The customer swipes
the card through the reader, then specifies the amount of fuel required. The fuel is
delivered and the customer's account debited.
* The pump should take payement through a credit card reader
* The card reader should receive a swipe of a credit card.
* The pump should take input from the user on how much fuel is desired 
* The pump should deliver the correct amount of fuel specified by the user 
* The pump should charge the users card the proper amount. 

The cash-dispensing function in a bank ATM.
* The atm should allow the user to enter their bank info or swipe their card 
* The atm should alert authorities immediately if it loses more than the maximum amount that can be withdrawl from an account 
* The atm should alert a technitian if certain bills are low in number. 

In an internet banking system, a facility that allows customers to transfer funds from one
account held with the bank to another account with the same bank.
* The system should allow users to verify they have securely connected to the system. 
* The system should make sure money is removed and added to the correct accounts. 
* The system should allow users to set up scheduled payments. 


4.6) Suggest how an engineer responsible for drawing up a system requirements
specification might keep track of the relationships between functional and non-functional
requirements.
* Functional requirements describe what the system should do while non-functional requirements specify or constrain characteristics of the system. An engineer might a graph where for each non-functional requirement there may be more than one functional requirement. The edges represent relationships between the two.

4.7) Using your knowledge of how an ATM is used, develop a set of use cases that could
serve as a basis for understanding the requirements for an ATM system.
* The user walks up to the atm inserts their card, the atm asks them to type in their pin and if the user enters it correctly, jump to A1, else have them enter it again and if they fail once more cancel the transation. A1: ask the user for how much money they wish to withdrawl and once they select an amount that is more than the total balance of their account cancel the transation, else release the correct amount of bills in simplest form unless specified by the user. Give the card back to the user and print "Have a lovely day!"  to the screen and reset for the next transaction. 

Reflection: 
*  Of all the articles we had to read I found "Test-Driven Development" and "Magical Number 7" most interesting. Almost in perfect harmony the purpose of writing tests for software is because as mentioned in Magical Number 7 the average number of objects the human mind can keep in consideration at one time is 7 plus or minus 2. By adopting the philosphy of test-driven development the odds that the software will be unsufficently tested is decreased because the tests will take a priority over even writing the code. Similarly if the same principles of requirements engineering were applied to "Tire Pressure Monitoring System" and "Spy Car Act of 2015" many issues of trying to fix broken already broken problems would have been resolved in the planning/design phase of software engineering, i.e. before coding the systems the requirements could have been specified and verified. 