---
layout: post
title: HW8 Mythical Man Month
---

HW8: 500+ word response to MMM(1-4)

For this week’s reading we had to read first 4 chapters of the very popular Mythical Man Month by Fred Brooks. At its core I viewed the reading as an insight to the philosophy of software development. 
Simply put Brooks is thoroughly examining how and why a software project can be sped up. To translate the title of the book is to say that there is some “magic” behind the idea that adding more workers to a software project does not mean the work is done faster, he argues that in cases where a project is behind adding new developers can even cause the exact opposite intended effect. Quite literally the term “man month” (apologies to all the women in computing) means the amount of work that can be done in a month by one person. 
The first chapter titled ‘Tar Pit’ highlights the idea that due to the complex nature of software the more you battle fire with fire the faster you sink into the tar pit. Meaning that complexity is the name of the game when it comes to software. If we were aiming to make our lives “easier” we wouldn’t strive for new things we would optimize the things that we have. I dare say that this metaphor translates beyond the world of software and into technology as a whole, but I digress from the purpose of this exercise. Philosophy... am I right...  
It is important to note that this is not the first of Brooks pieces we’ve read for this course. ‘No Silver Bullet’ also by Brooks, reflects itself into ‘Mythical Man Month’ directly in the form that good code takes extreme amounts of thought and effort to develop. He also makes the distinction between a program and a system. Where a program is easily knocked out with a pot of coffee and an all-nighter, while a system-based product takes weeks, months, or years to create. Similarly, a program by nature is almost expected to age out of the current tech stack, while a product adapts to new environments creating even more difficult to find solutions 
In the chapter titled ‘Surgical Team’ Brooks argues that teams of 10 are the maximum amount of people that can be in a “small team.” Likewise, that communication is key to making a good team and if you don’t talk to everyone on your team then it doesn’t count as an effective way to manage the project you work on. 
In conclusion, I did a terrible job at relaying Brooks philosophy. It takes years and years of experience and knowledge to truly understand the truth behind his words of simplicity. It is not a surprise to me that we still read his words today as they have aged so well. I look forward to periodically coming back to re-read this hoping to take different but increasingly meaningful takes each time. 
