---
layout: post
title: HW3: Chapters 11 & 12
---

# 11.4 
_Question:_ What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

Software architectural styles that support fault tolerance should always be diverse in their implentation. Whether it is run on different machines or programmed by different teams. The archiarchitectural terual style should also be prone to good, specifc, living testing behavior. 

# 11.7 
_Question:_ It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.

In this case since the penalty for software failure is so high, N-version programming is a viable solution to get the cheapest and most valuable piece of software, since the company would diminish their chances of killing patience and therefore loss of reputation/ law suites. 

# 11.9 
_Question:_ Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.

Exceptions that are not handled (depending on the language/system the software is running) would cause the software to break. By explicity handling all exceptions, you allow the software to remain in control even after unexpected behavior. 


# 12.5 
_Question:_ A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system:

* The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light.

* The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track.
 
Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to
on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible
functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from the
system safety requirements.

1. The train will maintain its speed if the light is green and it's speed is going the speed limit. 
2. The train will receive the transmission regarding the next segment's speed limit and signal
3. The train's brakes will be applied if it is going too fast for the current track segment
4. The train will brake if it is going faster than the upcoming track segment speed limit 
5. The train will stop if the transmitted signal color is red