---
layout: post
title: HW2: Reflections on software engineering practices
---

 Assignment: 500+ word reflection on No Silver Bullet, Kode Vicious, and Google Code Repo taken together - find common concerns in the articles and reflect upon them.

well hello, this week we had to read several articles and chapters from the textbook regarding the complexity of designing software and the subsequent responsibilities that come with that privilege. I took particular interest in the article "No Silver Bullet" from UNC's Frederick P. Brooks, Jr. For starters, I am amazed and yet somehow not surprised that an article from just about 40 years ago is relevant to todays world of software engineering. Although, like I said I am actually not surprised. In most other fields of study their "sacred texts" are much older than those of Computer Science. For instance the disconnect between Darwin and a modern Evolution scientist is almost never questioned, and it is just the case that the field of Software Engineering is maturing right before our eyes do due the incredible power and money that companies like Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Apple bring to this industry. I digress... "No Silver Bullet" is an enlightening article that points out the core of what it means to be a "good software engineer." It is quite literally to understand the complexity of incredibly complex things. The article argues that it is the very _essence_ of software is to be complex and that there literally is "no silver bullet" in resolving the essence of the field. On the other side of that pretentious coin is the fact that humans are responsible for writing complex software that is almost certain to be riddled with bugs in their own unique way. The ethics and morals of the programmer come into play as the complexity and inclusion of the software enters the mainstream world. In my opinion it has yet to reach the minds of the society that I was raised in (Washington, D.C.) that software engineers aren't just hipsters who drink coffee while "writing code." In reality software engineers have entered almost every single field that wishes to improve along side of technology, including mission critical and serious life or death situations. However, unlike a doctor or lawyer who take necessary exams on morality and likewise have industry standards the field of engineering software is often too wide and varied to apply the same strict code. This coupled with the industries infancy like age compared to the institution of law, results a much high possibility for terrible mess ups. 