---
layout: post
date: '2021-02-18'
title: Stupid or Solid?
---
Hello Internet.

The article we are talking about in this blog post is “From STUPID to SOLID Code” which describes the principles to turn your STUPID code into SOLID code.

Sidebar: These are legendary topics in the world of software engineering and multiple books such as "clean code" and "implementation patterns" are must reads for us newbies to the world of complex code bases in order to not just follow the status quo. Something Uncle bob,the author of our article as well as "clean code", said that stuck with me is that new programmers learn the most not from what other devs tell them but by what they read in the code they are adding to. Than that makes even more important that the code we write in the first place follows the SOLID principles and avoids STUPID.

The acronym STUPID stands for:

Singleton:

* Singleton refers to the singleton pattern, which is a design which restricts classes to a single instance. This gives a program a single global state, which the article argues makes testing extremely difficult.

Tight Coupling:

* Tight coupling occurs when the modules in your software are highly dependent upon one another. A symptom of this is if when making changes to one module you must make changes to another module. This makes modules difficult to reuse and test.

Untestability:

* Testing should not be difficult. If it is, it is indicative of other issues like tight coupling.

Premature Optimization:

* Optimization is complex, making minor changes won’t help much and it will make code unreadable.

Indescriptive Naming:

* Name things properly, make sure future you and others will be able to understand the names of your variables, classes, etc.

Duplication:

* Don’t repeat yourself. Repetitive code indicates refactoring is necessary.

SOLID

Single Responsibility Principle:

* Every class should have a single responsibility. This design pattern helps produce highly modular and testable code.

Open/Closed Principle:

* “software entities should be open for extension, but closed for modification”. Member variables should be private unless necessary and getters/setters should only be created when needed.

Liskov Substitution Principle:

* Objects should be replaceable with their subtypes.

Interface Segregation Principle:

* Many specialized interfaces are better than one generalized interface. Reduces clutter and increases cohesion.

Dependency Inversion Principle:

* “Abstractions should not depend on details and details should depend on abstractions.”

Almost certainly have I violated many of these principles especially Liskov Substitution Principle and Single Responsibility Principle. But now that I am more versed in the methodology I am going to make it my personal mission to write SOLID code.

Overall, I think uncle bob has done a great job in designing clean code and I'd highly recommend watching his lecture series on youtube about how to write clean code linked here: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wibk0IfjfaI&t=1> to be perfectly honest he is a crazy person that just has some very good takes on how to organize your code better.
