---
layout: post
date: '2021-01-21'
title: Reflections on FOSS
---

Hello! This blog post will reflect my thoughts on Free Open Source Software as it pertains to this class, the history, and the future of software development.

When first comparing "open source" to "closed source" my brain immediately went to "how does anyone make any money if the product is free...?" Of course, this discredits the power of big data and the subsequent serving of ads (cough google), but it does strike me as odd.

A noteworthy misconception of this conversation is that FOSS can indeed be commercialized. For instance, Red Hat uses open source software but sells maintenance and support to their product.

In terms of security and code quality, when FOSS is compared to closed source in different studies the two performed very similarly in both categories. Depending on the study FOSS even outperformed closed source.

I think it is also important to distinguish between free vs open-source software. In order for the software to truly be "free" it must abide by the "four software freedoms" they are listed below:

1. The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose (freedom 0).
2. The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (freedom 1). Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
3. The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others (freedom 2).
4. The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (freedom 3). By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.

In Eric Raymond's "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" he explores the idea of using OSS (open source software) as a solution to the software needs of the Health and social care industry. His philosophy is that since OSS is centered around community and the sharing of knowledge that this would pair well with kindness and hospitality in the health care field.
Instead of relying on "strategic business risk" when talking about people's lives at hand, the community can take control of the software to prevent disasters like the Therac-25 and others previously discussed.
