---
layout: post
date: '2021-02-04'
title: This bugs me
---

Yoo!!! This post is dedicated to this reading <https://quaid.fedorapeople.org/TOS/Practical_Open_Source_Software_Exploration/html/ch-Debugging_the_Code.html>. Titled Debugging_the_Code this chapter discussed the challenges of working with open-source projects and how to approach bugs/issues/triage/etc...

6.4. Exercise - Find the Oldest Bug
Find the oldest bug that's still open in your chosen project. Write a blog entry describing the problem, with a theory about why the bug hasn't been resolved yet. (Bonus points if you can actually resolve the bug.)

Digging into the github issues it looks like this <https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues/16> is the oldest still open issue. It seems to be a disuccion on enhancing the backend cache from django to redis. I am not very familiar with either of those technoligies, but from reading the comments by Tim Abbot it sounds like they would like this to be an optional feature and the current PR has it changing the whole structure. Tim argues that this would allow for a "sane migration path."

6.5. Exercise - Create Your Bug Tracker Account
Figure out how to create a new account on the bug tracker of your chosen project. You'll need that account very soon.

Easy enough. Zulip uses github to track their issues. <https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues>

6.6.1. Exercise - Reproduce a Bug
Go through your project's bug tracker and find a bug that you think you might be able to reproduce -- and then try to reproduce it in the latest build. Take careful notes. Report your experiences as a comment to the bug. If you can reproduce the bug, great! Give as much information as you can. If you can't reproduce the bug, great! Give as much information as you can, and ask the original reporter if there are other steps you might be able to take to reproduce the bug.

I refer you to our team Wiki where we document our exploration of bugs that we found and traced inside of zulip <https://github.com/CSCI-462-02-2021/Heximal/wiki/Timeline>.

6.7.1. Exercise - Bug Triage
Find five bug reports in the new state, and attempt to triage them according to the rules above. Your goal is to do as much as you possibly can, in a short period of time, to make those bug reports as useful as possible to the developer to whom they are assigned. (Note: be sure to follow any triage rules that your project may have defined. If there are no set triage rules, be sure to announce your intentions on the project's mailing list, so that developers can provide you some guidelines if they choose.)

ON IT! This may take some time haha

Best, Matt Walter aka WookieMonkeys
