---
layout: post
date: '2021-03-18'
title: Chapter 5
---
Hello Internet.

This blog post is centered around chapter 5 of our textbook Client-Centered Software Development which is titled "Domain Class Development" and focuses on the process of developing the domain classes for a CO-FOSS project.

This chapter addresses the three significant elements in the process of domain class development – coding, unit testing, and system testing. As we discussed at great lengths in previous blog posts pertaining to the class material in CSCI 362 testing is crucial for having a functional software project.

The design choices you make while implementing unit and system tests must be simple enough to edit when new features are added but complex enough to address the intricacies of the project. In reality, it is a never-ending battle of balance and strength.

This chapter also presents and illustrates strategies for finding and reusing code from other open-source projects, as well as coding the classes from scratch. The book spends lots of time going over examples with the given Person class and how it can be reused to fit different needs depending on the project at hand. I wish that it had talked more about truly applicable FOSS projects but those are subject to change as popularity is a young man's game.

Similarly, I wish that our course curriculum focused more on refactoring code to be more useable later down the line. I have watched Rex do his magic on our Zulip project and have learned a lot from how he approaches the problem of using existing code to his advantage.

In the latter half of the chapter, the authors talk about how after the software gets into the hands of the clients it is time to officially start "debugging." I know that they use that term very specifically but I have always thought it applies to the process of the programmer getting their code to work in the first place... maybe I should just write better code.

It is interesting that the authors point out that there is only so much testing the devs can do before the client gets their hands on the product to test. It is extremely hard to be able to use the product in desirable ways or in this case undesirable ways in order to break the system potentially.

Overall, I thought this chapter was insightful on how to approach the topic of testing for a given domain class and go about applying these methods to my own career.
