---
layout: post
date: '2021-03-25'
title: Chapter 6
---

Hello Internet.

This blog post is centered around chapter 6 of our textbook Client-Centered Software Development which is titled "Database Development."

Right off the bat the authors make the bold claim that they assume the reader knows almost nothing about databases in contrast to that of general programming and data structures, yet believe effective database manipulation in the software engineering world is the central problem. I'd agree that at the end of the day the world is revolving around data and how we interact with it and by optimizing how we store, retrieve, modify that data is paramount to how we grow in the tech space.

Like I mentioned this chapter has many sub topics that cover the basics of database concepts so I thought I'd include some of those concepts in hear to teach myself and the "people that read this blog."

Normalization
In database design, normalization is a strategy for designing tables so that they support general-purpose querying and ensure data integrity.

Queries
In SQL, the manipulation of data in a database is accomplished by executing a so-called query. Oddly, the term query is a misnomer. That is, a query not only can retrieve information from a table, but it also can insert, update, or delete rows from a table, and can even create or drop an entire table.

Wasn't that fun? In all reality that is the basics on databases. You store data in a "Normalized" way and then you can perform queries on it. One aspect I wish that we covered more on in CSCI 332 is actually connecting our programs to the databases. It is disgusting to think we ran MySQL on our local machines and did multiple labs typing in data by hand when we could have used python or java and learned how to actually query meaningfully. I've never personally used a database in any real world projects so I may be speaking out of line... but who in their right mind would actually log into the SQL server to do things manually. GROSS. In general, popular database systems are well-integrated with popular programming languages by way of so-called database extensions.

Another aspect of databases that the book covers quite extensively is database security and by extension concurrency control. (I know they aren't the same thing but in reality one can cause the other so I'm talking about them at the same time) In a client-server application, it is possible for two or more clients to be accessing the same database, even the same table, at the same time. Thus, the database system must define and enforce the actions that will occur whenever two or more clients try to update the same entry in a table at the same instant in time. This is the concurrency issue that plagues computers in general, but in databases this event is called a “collision.” For security the book recommends 3 guidelines to know whether your database is up to par and they are as follows:

1. It prevents unauthorized or accidental disclosure, alteration, or destruction of data.
2. It prevents unauthorized or accidental access to data considered confi- dential to the organization or individual who owns the data.
3. It ensures data integrity, which means that the data stored in the database is always valid and accurate.
(I would just like to quickly say CHANGE THE DEFAULT PASSWORD PLEASE)

Finally as all good software engineers should do there are ways of writing unit and integration tests for querying a database and it is best practice to thoroughly test the software system and its complexity before going live or "completing" the job.
