---
layout: post
date: '2021-02-11'
title: What's Happening?
---

The IEEE paper I chose to read for this blog post is titled "To Docker or Not to Docker: A security perspective." TLDR; I thought it was super helpful and interesting that they include a history of containers and thereby docker itself and I recommend anyone who isn't extremly familiar with the tech to give it a read.

I knew that container technology had existed long before docker was just a way for Linux to isolate programs of different versions to run on the same host OS. They mention that BSD Jails and Chroot are early implementations of containerization in Linux. However, recent Linux-based container solutions rely on kernel support of which there are two main implementations: LXC-based implementation, using cgroups and namespaces, and the OpenVZ patch. (Notably, cgroups and namespaces were merged starting from the Linux kernel version 2.6.24.)

Namespaces split the view processes have of the system. There are currently 6 different namespaces in the kernel, isolating various aspects of the system: PID, IPC, NET, MNT, UTS and USER. Each of these namespaces has its own kernel internal objects related to its type, and provides processes a local instance of some paths in /proc and /sys filesystems. Cgroups are a kernel mechanism to restrict the re- source usage of a process or group of processes.

Docker is special in that it is both a way to build, store, and pull images and run containers from those images. The docker ecosystem is surely why it has seen such an increase in market value over the past 10ish years, and why googles Kubernetes favors their container implementation method. (although thinking to myself it might just be because docker is a household name and at this point in time Feb 24 2021 it is unanimous with containers in general)

Now for the meat of this paper: docker's security features and design principles. Docker’s security relies on three components: 1.) isolation of processes at userspace level managed by the Docker daemon; 2.) enforcement of this isolation by the kernel; and, 3.) network operations security.

The default isolation configuration is relatively strict, the only flaw is that all containers share the same network bridge, enabling ARP poisoning attacks between containers on the same host. ARP poisoning is a technique by which an attacker sends Address Resolution Protocol messages onto a local area network forcing the router to reassign local IP addresses in the bad actors favor. (Thanks cyber security club) This is relatively hard to overcome in terms of security. By disconnecting the containers from each other multi-container applications would most likely break in their core functionality.

That being said, Linux kernel Security Modules such as SELinux, Apparmor and Seccomp are supported, with available default profiles. These profiles force security related limitations on containers and prevent containers from attacking the Host OS but does not effectively mitigate inter-container attacks. Custom profiles are possible solutions to these network attacks but are not covered in the paper, most likely because they are rather container specific.
