---
layout: post
date: '2021-03-11'
title: Release early and often
---
Hello Internet.

Today we have multiple chapters so I am going to get right into it starting with:

Chapter 8 titled "Explaining the Code" of our book TOS talks at length about how the presence and persistence of great documentation naturally create great code and vice versa.

I thought this reading was very accurate on the importance of good docs. In my own experience creating beautiful, clear, concise documentation for code is incredibly difficult. Not only do you have to solve the logic problem at hand but you then have to take the time to describe it to a 3rd grader who only sorta knows what's going on, but if you over-explain your PR won't get merged...

I think this is taught well enough at CofC but to be fair clean comments are more of an art than a science and it takes years to develop a style and be able to express your thought process effectively.

Next, Chapter 9 titled "Release Early and Often" of TOS discusses the principle of release early, release often.

In general, this chapter makes the claim that utilizing quick and frequent releases in a software development cycle allows for a more efficient and responsive feedback loop between developers and users. The RERO principle seeks to allow faster responses to bugs and other issues as well as user feedback. RERO is an important principle in agile programming and I think it is a valuable methodology in software development that is greatly beneficial to large client-focused software projects. In my opinion, this principle is directly related to Agile development practices and is rated highly amongst the developer community.

Finally, a different Chapter 8 titled "Preparing to Deploy" of our book “Client-centered Software Development.”

Now, this is an interesting chapter that I don't think gets talked about enough. People often think documentation is in the comments of code but in reality, user docs are just as or maybe even more important. This begs the question of how do you write user docs when the developer can't even write good docs for like-minded individuals? The answer is technical writers. In my time at Decipher Technology studios I have had a lot of time myself writing user docs for features I have written and even some I didn't know what they were doing. In some weird way, it is hard both ways. In the first case, it is hard to slow your technical thoughts to the pace of someone who hasn't been thinking of your exact code changes for the past however long. In the second case, it might be even more difficult because before you create the docs you must go back and understand what someone else did by reading just their code or if you are lucky you can talk to them. Regardless of which scenario you find yourself in it is very important to remember there are standards for writing quality mentioned in this chapter that is very detailed and I will personally go back and paste it into a GitHub link for myself to look back at later. Basically, you can have a whole job just in technical writing and it is very underappreciated in the tech world unless you are FAANG.
