---
layout: post
date: '2021-03-30'
title: Chapter 9
---

Hello Internet.
This blog post is centered around chapter 9 of our textbook Client-Centered Software Development dealing which focuses on "Continuing the Journey" of software after it has achieved its MVP.
The first part of the chapter goes into great detail on the "hand-off" as they like to call it. Where after the developers who designed a particular system for a given client passes the code base off to someone (in our case the software is assumed to a website but could be any codebase) can then host the software/code on their systems. According to CO-FOSS there are certain criteria which must be met in order to ensure this process goes smoothly and they are as follows:

1. The client and the hosting service both support this transition.
2. The hosting service already supports the client’s Web site.
3. The new software is technically compatible with the client’s server (Web site).
4. The professional developer can provide ongoing bug fixes at a reasonable cost to the client.

Sidebar: I'd like to think I am a devops oriented developer. I kinda geek out about containerization/docker, CI/CD, and effective means of deploying the codebase. That being said I truly think this part of the software world has taken large strides even since I joined the community really starting in 2018. I think the primary contributors are AWS and Google as they keep pushing the envelope  on where and how to get your systems deployed. But at the same time I think we should really learn about netlify in this class because it is AMAZING!

In parts 2 and 3 of chapter 9 the book discusses assessing/evalutating codebases as well as giving multiple case studies for how this applies to open-source projects.
Something I have taken for granted in my short career as a software engineer are the years before github... To be completely honest that sounds like a scary time. How could someone possibly work remotely? What do you mean you can't review my PR on your iPhone.. just hit merge? It is strange to think that all the things I deal with today might be solved by technology of the future and that the industry is responsible for it itself. That being said assessing code has never been easier with static code analysis being such a hot buzz word these days and microservices breaking down complex systems into bite size chunks for specialized teams to consume. Don't get me wrong microservices have pros and cons but they are prime breeding ground for the open-source community to take hold in. Similarly something I have never truly considered but should really get familiar with are the various licenses software can have for reuse. I don't know if I can truly appreciate the open-source world, know what the javascript trap, or make an open-source project of my own with out understanding the concept of licenses.
